- [Instructor] The concept of connection pooling
is something that you'll run into
when you're writing systems that actually
receive multiple connections at a given time,
and then connect to the database across multiple threads.
This is very, very common, for instance,
in Java web applications where you have
a single web application that may have multiple connections
to the database, as well as multiple users connecting
to it at the same time, so connection pooling
is a very common data access pattern that allows you
to reuse connections from request to request.
Now, this sort of works as a cache,
so you have a pool, or cache of connections,
and each time you need a connection,
you go to the cache to get it, instead of creating
it yourself and connecting to the database.
Now, often this is managed by a pooling framework
so you don't write the cache itself.
You just reach out to the pooling framework
and say, "Hey, I need a connection, give me one."
And it will create one behind the scenes,
if you don't have one, now, developers do
often configure connection pooling,
but that's beyond the scope of this course,
but it's why I am bringing it up,
so that you understand that it does exist.
And you may need to, you know,
read about it if you're working
with connection pools in your application.
So, why would we want to use connection pooling?
Well, it's very simply a time-savings mechanism.
The life cycle to create a connection
to the database is very resource intensive.
It's also a very costly operation as far as time goes.
So, not only does it steal your resources,
it steals your time and, in most instances,
the cost of keeping connections open
is much cheaper than actually creating new ones.
And this is really, really true
in high activity database applications
that are constantly going back and forth to the database,
especially things using repository patterns,
where it's a bunch of quick hits to the database.
So, a typical connection creation routine kind
of follows this pattern, so the application makes
a request which, ultimately, goes to the JVM.
The JVM goes to the OS to get a TCP socket.
It reaches out to the server and then does a TCP handshake,
which is a two way connection between the client
and the server, and they decide on which port
they're actually going to communicate on,
opening up yet, another socket.
Now, once you get back to the client side,
the OS has to hand that to the JVM.
And then, the JVM to the client driver.
So, all of this operation takes time,
but it is very efficient when you look at it
from the perspective of how fast that happens
to a human but, to a computer, it is extremely slow.
Now, when a connection pulling request happens,
the request goes from the application directly to the pool.
The pool will hand a connection handle
to the application, and if none exists in the pool,
or if the pool has run out of connections
it will create them for you following
the logic that we previously saw,
but it can background some of that tasks
because usually it doesn't create one connection,
it creates a block of them at once.
And then, you control how many total connections
to have live, how many total have,
and how often to recycle them.
Now, I do want to point out that there's a couple
of very common pooling libraries that you may run across.
So, there's the Apache Commons
DB Connection Pooling, or DBCP.
There's also C3PO, which is my favorite,
not only because of Star Wars,
but because it's the one that I've used the most common.
And then, there's HikariCP.
Now, all three of these manage connection poolings
in a very similar fashion and, again,
it's beyond the scope of this course,
but if you're really interested in 'em
there's some great information you can read
on all of their prospective sites
on how pooling works and how to tune pooling
to be most optimal for your application needs.